# Python Package Requirements:

This example was run with:
```
* Python 3.12
* infretis (2026.1.1)
* inftools (2026.1.1)
* ase (3.28.0)
* scienceplots (2.2.1)
```

Purpose:
This example runs the forward and backward $`\infty`$RETIS simulations for the 2D potential with the ASE engine as shown in Fig 3. in the preprint [1], and provides a script to reproduce the figure.

[1] https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.05793

# I. Forward Direction:
The *.sh files can be inspected to see the actual commands.
1. Generate initial configurations `python3 create_conf.py`
2. Run Inf-init in `init_f1`, `inft infinit -toml infretis0.toml`
3. Ensure that reactive trajectories have been generated by visualizing the
   sampled paths: `inft plot_order -toml infretis.toml -traj load`. In the case
that the Inf-init is still running after sampling such paths, it can now be stopped.
4. In the `run_f1` folder, copy valid paths from the Inf-init `bash copy_trajs.sh`
5. In the same folder, run the infretis simulation `infretisrun -i
   infretis.toml`
6. To observe the progress of the simulation, you can write `inft progress` in a
   new terminal (but same directory)
7. Once complete, analyze the data by running wham across the different angle
   CVs: `bash wham.sh`

# II. Backward Direction:
Just repeat the previous procedure for the backward direction (folders) `init_b1` and `run_b1`.

# III. Analysis
Now that all the simulations are complete, we can create the final figure.
1. In the root `angle` folder, run `bash free.sh` to calculate the unconditional
   free energies.
2. In the root `angle` folder, run `python3 angle_combo.py` to generate the figure.
